Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on singly linked lists in this lecture we'll have an overview
on singly linked lists.
What they are will see some diagrams to explain them and then more specifically We'll also go over adding
elements to us linked lists and removing elements to a singly linked list.
OK formally and in a general sense a singly linked lists in its simplest form is a collection of nodes
that collectively form a linear sequence.
Each node stores a reference to an object that is an element of the sequence as well as a reference
the next node of the list.
So if we see this drawn out there just what a single node looks like we have our elements.
In this case we are going to use airport codes or elements MSP the airport code for Minneapolis and
then we have another reference to connecting to another node in our linked lists so we can think of
this as a bunch of nodes that are linked together by these pointers.
Here we have a more full diagram of a singly linked lists the list instance maintains a member named
head that identifies the first note of the list which is this one right here.
Notice how nothing points to the head since its the first node of that list.
In some applications another member named tail that it defies the last note of the list may be found
over at the end.
And in this case this note points to none or nothing indicating that its detail and remember each of
these nodes again is referencing its own element.
In this case the airport codes
again the first and last note of a linked list are known as the head and tail of the list we can identify
the tail as the node having none as its next reference.
This process of going through out the nodes and going through them and checking the linked lists by
going through the nodes is commonly known as traversing the linked list.
So just a couple of terms to review.
We have the head and the tail of the linked list and if we start going through the notes and going through
the connections of the pointers that will be known as traversing the linked list because the next reference
of a node can be viewed as a link or a pointer to another node.
That process of traversing a list is sometimes also known as link hopping or pointer hopping we'll just
call it traversing.
Each node is represented as a unique object of that instance storing a reference to its elements.
In our case those airport codes and the reference to the next node or in the case of the tail none.
So we changed the diagram here.
Just for simplicity's sake with the reference to the element just being part of the node instead of
writing out that pointer that way it looks a little cleaner.
Now lets talk about inserting an element at the head of a singly linked lists.
How do we actually go about doing that.
An important property of a linked list is that it does not have a pre-determined fixed size that uses
space proportionally to its current number of elements.
That means to insert a new element at the head of the list.
You have to do four things.
We create a new node set its element to the new element set its next link to refer to the current head
then set the list head to point to the new node.
Let's try this out in a diagram.
OK we have three steps here three diagrams a BNC bays water singly Leitz looks like before we actually
do an insertion to it.
So we have the head node Minneapolis pointing to Atlanta node pointing to the boss the node pointing
to none.
And now we want to insert an element to the head of a singly linked list.
So we want to insert elex here after we create the new node where we end up doing is a re-assignment
of the head of reference.
So we assign alx and reference a next node in Minneapolis and then do a re-assignment of the head reference
to L.A.X..
Now we want to insert element at the tail of a singly linked lists.
We can also easily insert elmet at the tail de-list provided we keep a reference to the tail node.
In this case we create a new node assign its next reference to none set the next reference of the tail
to point to this new node.
Then update the tail reference itself to this new node.
Lets see what this looks like a diagram.
Here we have three figures.
The first one a is what it looks like before the insertion.
So Minneapolis has the head pointed to Atlanta pointing to the tail Boston which itself points to none
because its the tail.
Then we create a new node here in this figure.
And after we do this we set that you know to reference none.
Its important to know that we must set the next blink of detail in this that be before we assign the
tail variable to point to the new node in see here.
So we set up our new node and then first pointed to none before pointing our previous tail to the new
tail node.
Now lets talk about removing an element from a singly linked lists removing an element from the head
of a singly linked list is essentially the reverse operation of inserting a new element at the head
.
Here we explain it through some diagrams.
This is what are singly linked lists looks like before Moville we have L.A.X. Minneapolis Atlanta Boston
L.A. X at the head Boston at the tail.
And we basically just link out L.A.X. by pointing the head to Minneapolis and then we can easily remove
that node.
We cannot easily delete the last note of a singly linked list.
However even if we maintain a tail reference directly to the last note of the list we must be able to
access the node before the last node.
In order to remove the last node but we cannot reach the node before the tail by following the next
links from the tail if we want to support such an operation efficiently we will need to make our list
a doubly linked list.
So weve learned a lot about singly linked list and how to add or remove elements from them.
Up next we're going to implement a node class and create a single linked list.
As far as the actual topic of linked list formally and through diagrams you might think hey this pretty
simple is just a bunch of notes pointing to each other and then pointing to an element.
And I think when you see the actual implementation you'll realize is just that simple of an idea.
The singly linked lists you have nodes that point to each other.
The trick is just doing certain operations on them such as reversing them or checking on particular
node in that list or removing nodes from the tail of a singly linked lists in which case you have to
go to a doubly linked list.
Hopefully you can see in our implementation the next lecture that this is a pretty simple topic and
straightforward.
The challenge is feeling comfortable enough with it in order to solve the injury problems that we see
at the end of the section.
All right.
So let's go ahead and jump to the next lecture or we're going to implement our own node class and create
a singly linked list.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture